today on our 2007 mazda cx7 we'll be
installing the tow ready trailer wiring
kit part number one one eight two four
nine this kit is designed if you have
the OEM tow package the OEM factory tow
package port is actually located at the
right rear of the vehicle when you pull
the cover off you can see the wire is
bundled up and actually has some black
tape holding it in place
it is a white plug that we will be
plugging into well first go ahead and
set off the spare tire cover lid next
we'll need to go ahead and remove the
rear threshold there are two push
fasteners one on each side that will
need to be removed first next we'll have
to go ahead and remove two screws here
that help hold down the jack holder with
these two screws removed we can set that
aside as well now for the interior panel
piece on the side of the wall we'll need
to remove a bolt using a ten millimeter
socket found underneath the tie-down
hook here as well as one screw just
above it that's a Philips head but these
two locations removed there's two more
push fasteners that need to be taken out
as well
and then we can again use our large
flat-head screwdriver or trim panel
removal tool to slide this interior
panel out just enough that we can get
our 4-flat worked in behind now that we
have all the Interior loose and go ahead
and make our connection to our factory
wiring harness making sure that the
locking tabs lock into place next we'll
go ahead and peel off the cover on the
two-sided tape that's mounted to our
converter box and find an area just
inside this interior panel to mount it
you need to look for an area that's flat
so the converter box and two-sided tape
sticks well you may want to take a paper
towel and wipe down the interior part
where you're gonna put the converter box
to make sure there's no dirt or anything
else that may cause the two-sided tape
not to stick properly once we have our
converter box in place we'll go ahead
and route our 4-flat down behind the
interior panel and bring it out around
where the spare tire is you'll notice on
the center threshold there's an area
raised up on the passenger side that our
four flat wire will slide out just fine
now we can go ahead and begin by putting
our interior back together in the
reverse order that we took it out once
we have all of our interior panels back
in next we can go ahead and use our test
light and run through the light
functions to make sure everything's
working just fine
with our ground connected to the open
prong on the 4-flat we'll go ahead and
touch your brown wire with the running
lights on you should get a constant beep
or a light for the left turn signal or
the driver side turn signal will be
touching the yellow wire with the turn
signal on you should get an intermittent
beep or flash for the passenger side or
right side you'll be touching the green
wire again an intermittent beep or flash
for the brake lights you'll get a
constant beep or a light for both the
green and the yellow wire again our
brake lights are working good - now
we're not using your 4-flat you can put
the cover on the 4-flat and stow it up
next to where the spare tire is located
when you do need to use your 4-flat you
can pull it out making sure that you
keep it away from the center latch on
the rear hatch when you close the rear
hatch door the weather stripping will
allow the 4-flat to stay out the rear of
the vehicle yet not damage it when the
rear hatch is closed and with that that
will conclude the installation of the
tow ready wiring harness part number one
1/8 to 49 on our 2007 mazda cx7